so once you have your general position
and your right hand in place the left
hand is fairly simple what you want to
do is start with your hand hanging
shoulders down and you're gonna bring
your hand over to the neck by bending
from the elbow you're not going to be
lifting your elbow it's just your elbow
remains next to your body and you're
gonna bring your forearm up by bending
it you're gonna get about the middle
part of the neck next you have to figure
out the position of your wrist and for
the most part the palm is gonna be
parallel to the neck and you want a
parallel but you don't want to be
touching the neck so if you're if you're
touching it then it's gonna be really
tough to play on a first string you
don't want too far away either the good
test for that is whether you can play a
bar from wherever you are so if I'm too
far down then I can't really play a full
bar because I won't be able to reach the
sixth string and if I'm too close then I
can't play the first string so you have
to find that middle place where
no matter which string I play on I can
easily move my first finger from an on
bar without having to make any major
adjustments the other thing to look out
for is your thumb and for a lot of the
acoustic players the thumb can be
actually part of your left hand
fingering but because the classical
guitar neck the fretboard is so much
wider we can't really use our thumb to
play bass notes so it needs to remain
behind the fretboard and the bar trick
would actually help with that because if
you're playing a full bar there's no way
you can fit your thumb and have it
showing so you're doing everything right
your thumb is not gonna even be able to
come out from the back of the neck now
when you're gonna move back to the first
position your elbow has to follow you
can't obviously you can't remain like
this you still don't want to be lifting
it and there's two reasons why you don't
want to be lifting it first when it's
hanging down you're more relaxed you're
not holding anything up and second
because it's hanging it it's weight it's
gonna help you with pressing down the
notes if you're if you take it off the
the way if you take it out of the
equation then all of the healthy heavy
lifting is left for them the thumb here
and that's just gonna be really tough
you want to have your elbow help out
your thumb so I can get a bit of a break
so once you figure that out have your
elbow hanging and be able to play a
barre chord no matter where you are so
if you play a scale for example
and it doesn't matter whether you're
gonna switch a bit in the middle or not
it shouldn't really alter your head your
left hand position why don't you have
those basics down then everything else
is gonna be adjusted they're obviously
going to be some really awkward and
unusually shaped cords that you won't be
able to hold your hands straight just to
get the notes those will be the
exceptions to the bar rule and
everything else will follow that I hope
that helps with positioning of the
guitar in later lessons we'll go into
more details on different techniques and
we'll talk about the specific technique
in each lesson thank you for watching